README.md, before:

# Python Lenddo API Client

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [General Usage](#general-usage)
  - [Example: Requesting one of your client's Lenddo Score](#example-requesting-one-of-your-clients-lenddo-score)
  - [Exceptions and Error Handling] (#exceptions-and-error-handling)
- [Submitting Applications to Lenddo: Using the API Client as a White Label Solution] (#submitting-applications-to-lenddo-using-the-api-client-as-a-white-label-solution)
  - [The PartnerToken API call] (#the-partnertoken-api-call)
  - [The CommitPartnerJob API call] (#the-commitpartnerjob-api-call)
- [Requesting Results from Lenddo] (#requesting-results-from-lenddo)
    - [Scores] (#scores)
    - [Verification Results] (#verification-results)

## Introduction
The `lenddo_api_client` python module provides the class `LenddoAPIClient`, 
a generic interface to all the Lenddo HTTP APIs. The client makes authenticated HTTP requests
using the HMAC-SHA1 signing method.

## Installation
The python Lenddo API client library has no third-party dependencies. The only installation
step is to drop `lenddo_api_client.py` into a directory in your `PYTHONPATH`. The client has
been tested with python versions 2.6.x and 2.7.x. 

## General Usage
In order to make API calls, first instantiate a `LenddoAPIClient` initialized
with your API id, your API secret and the base URL of the API resource you intend to use. You
may then make HTTP requests using the client's `get`, `post`, `put`, `delete` and `options`
methods, which are named after the respective HTTP methods. Arguments to
these methods take the form `(resource-type, resource-id, parameter-dictionary)`:
- `resource-type` describes the resource being requested (for example `ClientScore`,
`PartnerToken`)
- `resource-id` identifies the specific instance of the requested resource
- `parameter-dictionary` contains additional parameters supported by the call.
In the case of a GET request, these are converted to the request query string. In a POST
or PUT request, they are JSON-encoded and submitted as the request body.

### Example: Requesting one of your client's Lenddo Score
In this example we make a GET request to the `ClientScore` API to obtain the score for a
client with id `example-user`. `ClientScore` is hosted at `scoreservice.lenddo.com`.

```python
from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient
client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://scoreservice.lenddo.com')
response = client.get('ClientScore', 'example-user')
```

This results in a signed HTTP GET request to `https://scoreservice.lenddo.com/ClientScore/example-user`.

### Exceptions and Error Handling
The exceptions raised by the client are standard exceptions documented in standard library docs. Be prepared for:
* [urllib2.HTTPError](https://docs.python.org/2/library/urllib2.html#urllib2.HTTPError)
Raised by the underlying urllib2 library when an API call returns non-success status.
* [urllib2.URLError] (https://docs.python.org/2/library/urllib2.html#urllib2.URLError)
Raised on network error.

The following is the same request as in the previous example, this time with error handling included:

```python
import json
import urllib2

from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient
client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://scoreservice.lenddo.com')
try:
	response = client.get('ClientScore', 'example-user')
except urllib2.HTTPError as e:
	print 'API call failed with status %d' % e.code

	# Error responses from the Lenddo APIs still return JSON bodies describing error details,
	# only now we have to decode the JSON ourselves.
	print json.loads(e.read())
except urllib2.URLError as e:
	print 'API call failed with reason %s' % e.reason
```

For the sake of brevity, we omit error handling in subsequent examples. In production code, calls should
be made taking into account at least the possibility of `urllib2.HTTPError`.

## Submitting Applications to Lenddo: Using the API Client as a White Label Solution

You may submit data directly to Lenddo while keeping your own branding, thus utilizing Lenddo services
without having users leave your ecosystem. For each user application, this is accomplished in two
phases: first by making POST calls to the `PartnerToken` resource, which saves OAuth tokens associated
to your user's application, and finally by committing the job using the `CommitPartnerJob` resource.
Both resources are hosted at `networkservice.lenddo.com`.

Applications are identified by a `client_id` which must be supplied as parameter to both
calls. In addition, the `partner_script_id` parameter specifies how Lenddo informs
you of the results. You may only commit one job per `client_id`/`partner_script_id` pair.

### The PartnerToken API call
During the first phase of the job flow, make calls to `PartnerToken` to send social
network OAuth tokens to Lenddo. Each call to `PartnerToken` returns a `profile_id`
which you must save in order to send it along with all other `profile_ids` associated
to this application when you finally commit the job. To add multiple tokens for the same
application, make multiple `PartnerToken` calls, each time saving the returned
`profile_id`.

`PartnerToken` takes the following arguments, all required unless stated otherwise:

- **client_id** - a string that identifies the application to associate with an OAuth token
It must match the `client_id` you use in the `CommitPartnerJob` step.
- **provider** - the token provider. Valid values are:
    `Facebook`, ` LinkedIn`, ` Yahoo`, ` WindowsLive`, or ` Google`
- **token data** - a dictionary of OAuth token data with keys `key` and `extra_data`.
   > **Note**: All tokens must be **OAuth 2.0**.
    - **key** - the access token proper, a string
    - **extra_data** - optional dictionary of additional OAuth fields returned by the token provider.

**Note** In order for Lenddo to generate the profile_id, it has to use the supplied OAuth token,
which may fail (for example, when the user has denied permission or the token has expired). When
this happens, PartnerToken will return with HTTP 400 and the body of the response will contain both the
error code and response body that Lenddo received when trying to use the token. The provider's HTTP response
is under 'provider_status_code' and the provider's response body is under "provider_response". The format of
the "provider_response" varies among OAuth providers; see the OAuth provider's documentation for details.


#### Example
```python
import json
import urllib2
from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient

client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://networkservice.lenddo.com')
try:
    response = client.post('PartnerToken', None, {
        'client_id' : 'example-user',
        'provider' : 'Facebook',
        'token_data' : { 'key' : 'example-access-token' }})
except urllib2.HTTPError as e:
    print 'API call failed with HTTP status %d' % e.code
    print json.loads(e.read())

profile_id = response['profile_id']
# ... and store this profile_id - client_id association
```

#### Errors
|Error Name                         |HTTP Status Code    |Description |
|----------                         |----------------    |----------- |
|BAD_REQUEST                        |400                 |Request was malformed, or missing required data. |
|INVALID_TOKEN                      |400                 |Token data was missing required fields or fields had invalid values.|
|TOKEN_FAILURE                      |400                 |Failure upon attempt to use the token. 'provider_status_code' contains the provider's HTTP status code. 'provider_response' contains the provider's error response body. |
|INTERNAL_ERROR                     |500                 |An internal error occurred. If this persists please contact a Lenddo Representative.|

### The CommitPartnerJob API Call
Once there are no more tokens to associate to a given application, use the
`CommitPartnerJob` call to have Lenddo compute a score for your user. To
obtain the results of the job, see [Requesting Results from Lenddo] (#requesting-results-from-lenddo).

`CommitPartnerJob` takes the following arguments, all required:

- **partner script id** - Please reference the [developer section](https://partners.lenddo.com/developer_settings) 
    of the partner dashboard. This will define how you're notified of scoring results.
- **client id** - a transaction id that, coupled with the partner script id, identifies this job. For any given
    application, this is the same client_id used in the `PartnerToken` call.
    You can use this value to retrieve score results.
- **profile ids** - a list of `profile_ids` gathered from the results of the `PartnerToken` call.

#### Example
```python
# In the actual workflow, profile_ids would be the list of the ids obtained from PartnerToken
# responses associated to this application.
profile_ids = ['123FB']

# Assume the same client instance as used in the PartnerToken section.
# This client connects to networkservice.lenddo.com.
client.post('CommitPartnerJob', None, {
    'partner_script_id' : 'your-partner-script-id',
    'client_id' : 'example-user',
    'profile_ids' : profile_ids})
```

#### Errors
|Error Name                         |HTTP Status Code    |Description |
|----------                         |----------------    |----------- |
|BAD_REQUEST                        |400                 |Request was malformed, or missing required data. |
|INTERNAL_ERROR                     |500                 |An internal error occurred. If this persists please contact a Lenddo Representative. |
|PARTNER_CLIENT_ALREADY_PROCESSED   |400                 |The specified client_id has already been used. |


## Requesting Results from Lenddo

You may obtain score and verification results from Lenddo by making calls to the
`ClientVerification` and `ClientScore` APIs hosted at `scoreservice.lenddo.com`.

### Scores
To obtain score results, make a GET request to `ClientScore`:

```python
from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient
client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://scoreservice.lenddo.com')
response = client.get('ClientScore', 'example-user')
score = response['score']
flags = response['flags']
```

### Verification Results
To obtain verification results, make a GET request to `ClientVerification`:

```python
from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient
client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://scoreservice.lenddo.com')
response = client.get('ClientVerification', 'example-user')
results = response['verifications']
flags = response['flags']
name_results = results['name']
```

### Errors
|Error Name        |HTTP Status Code    |Description |
|----------        |----------------    |----------- |
|BAD_REQUEST       |400                 |Request was malformed, or missing required data. |
|INTERNAL_ERROR    |500                 |An internal error occurred. If this persists please contact a Lenddo Representative. |
|NOT_FOUND         |404                 |The requested client_id was not found. |

Commit message:

Described what "Error name" means.

README.md, after:

# Python Lenddo API Client

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [General Usage](#general-usage)
  - [Example: Requesting one of your client's Lenddo Score](#example-requesting-one-of-your-clients-lenddo-score)
  - [Exceptions and Error Handling] (#exceptions-and-error-handling)
- [Submitting Applications to Lenddo: Using the API Client as a White Label Solution] (#submitting-applications-to-lenddo-using-the-api-client-as-a-white-label-solution)
  - [The PartnerToken API call] (#the-partnertoken-api-call)
  - [The CommitPartnerJob API call] (#the-commitpartnerjob-api-call)
- [Requesting Results from Lenddo] (#requesting-results-from-lenddo)
    - [Scores] (#scores)
    - [Verification Results] (#verification-results)

## Introduction
The `lenddo_api_client` python module provides the class `LenddoAPIClient`, 
a generic interface to all the Lenddo HTTP APIs. The client makes authenticated HTTP requests
using the HMAC-SHA1 signing method.

## Installation
The python Lenddo API client library has no third-party dependencies. The only installation
step is to drop `lenddo_api_client.py` into a directory in your `PYTHONPATH`. The client has
been tested with python versions 2.6.x and 2.7.x. 

## General Usage
In order to make API calls, first instantiate a `LenddoAPIClient` initialized
with your API id, your API secret and the base URL of the API resource you intend to use. You
may then make HTTP requests using the client's `get`, `post`, `put`, `delete` and `options`
methods, which are named after the respective HTTP methods. Arguments to
these methods take the form `(resource-type, resource-id, parameter-dictionary)`:
- `resource-type` describes the resource being requested (for example `ClientScore`,
`PartnerToken`)
- `resource-id` identifies the specific instance of the requested resource
- `parameter-dictionary` contains additional parameters supported by the call.
In the case of a GET request, these are converted to the request query string. In a POST
or PUT request, they are JSON-encoded and submitted as the request body.

### Example: Requesting one of your client's Lenddo Score
In this example we make a GET request to the `ClientScore` API to obtain the score for a
client with id `example-user`. `ClientScore` is hosted at `scoreservice.lenddo.com`.

```python
from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient
client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://scoreservice.lenddo.com')
response = client.get('ClientScore', 'example-user')
```

This results in a signed HTTP GET request to `https://scoreservice.lenddo.com/ClientScore/example-user`.

### Exceptions and Error Handling
The exceptions raised by the client are standard exceptions documented in standard library docs. Be prepared for:
* [urllib2.HTTPError](https://docs.python.org/2/library/urllib2.html#urllib2.HTTPError)
Raised by the underlying urllib2 library when an API call returns non-success status.
* [urllib2.URLError] (https://docs.python.org/2/library/urllib2.html#urllib2.URLError)
Raised on network error.

The following is the same request as in the previous example, this time with error handling included:

```python
import json
import urllib2

from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient
client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://scoreservice.lenddo.com')
try:
	response = client.get('ClientScore', 'example-user')
except urllib2.HTTPError as e:
	print 'API call failed with status %d' % e.code

	# Error responses from the Lenddo APIs still return JSON bodies describing error details,
	# only now we have to decode the JSON ourselves.
	print json.loads(e.read())
except urllib2.URLError as e:
	print 'API call failed with reason %s' % e.reason
```

For the sake of brevity, we omit error handling in subsequent examples. In production code, calls should
be made taking into account at least the possibility of `urllib2.HTTPError`.

## Submitting Applications to Lenddo: Using the API Client as a White Label Solution

You may submit data directly to Lenddo while keeping your own branding, thus utilizing Lenddo services
without having users leave your ecosystem. For each user application, this is accomplished in two
phases: first by making POST calls to the `PartnerToken` resource, which saves OAuth tokens associated
to your user's application, and finally by committing the job using the `CommitPartnerJob` resource.
Both resources are hosted at `networkservice.lenddo.com`.

Applications are identified by a `client_id` which must be supplied as parameter to both
calls. In addition, the `partner_script_id` parameter specifies how Lenddo informs
you of the results. You may only commit one job per `client_id`/`partner_script_id` pair.

### The PartnerToken API call
During the first phase of the job flow, make calls to `PartnerToken` to send social
network OAuth tokens to Lenddo. Each call to `PartnerToken` returns a `profile_id`
which you must save in order to send it along with all other `profile_ids` associated
to this application when you finally commit the job. To add multiple tokens for the same
application, make multiple `PartnerToken` calls, each time saving the returned
`profile_id`.

`PartnerToken` takes the following arguments, all required unless stated otherwise:

- **client_id** - a string that identifies the application to associate with an OAuth token
It must match the `client_id` you use in the `CommitPartnerJob` step.
- **provider** - the token provider. Valid values are:
    `Facebook`, ` LinkedIn`, ` Yahoo`, ` WindowsLive`, or ` Google`
- **token data** - a dictionary of OAuth token data with keys `key` and `extra_data`.
   > **Note**: All tokens must be **OAuth 2.0**.
    - **key** - the access token proper, a string
    - **extra_data** - optional dictionary of additional OAuth fields returned by the token provider.

**Note** In order for Lenddo to generate the profile_id, it has to use the supplied OAuth token,
which may fail (for example, when the user has denied permission or the token has expired). When
this happens, PartnerToken will return with HTTP 400 and the body of the response will contain both the
error code and response body that Lenddo received when trying to use the token. The provider's HTTP response
is under 'provider_status_code' and the provider's response body is under "provider_response". The format of
the "provider_response" varies among OAuth providers; see the OAuth provider's documentation for details.


#### Example
```python
import json
import urllib2
from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient

client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://networkservice.lenddo.com')
try:
    response = client.post('PartnerToken', None, {
        'client_id' : 'example-user',
        'provider' : 'Facebook',
        'token_data' : { 'key' : 'example-access-token' }})
except urllib2.HTTPError as e:
    print 'API call failed with HTTP status %d' % e.code
    print json.loads(e.read())

profile_id = response['profile_id']
# ... and store this profile_id - client_id association
```

#### Errors
To inspect error details, catch urllib2.HTTPError, call the exception object's 'read()' method, and decode the
JSON response.  In the table below, 'Error Name' refers to the string found in the response body's 'name' field.

|Error Name                         |HTTP Status Code    |Description |
|----------                         |----------------    |----------- |
|BAD_REQUEST                        |400                 |Request was malformed, or missing required data. |
|INVALID_TOKEN                      |400                 |Token data was missing required fields or fields had invalid values.|
|TOKEN_FAILURE                      |400                 |Failure upon attempt to use the token. 'provider_status_code' contains the provider's HTTP status code. 'provider_response' contains the provider's error response body. |
|INTERNAL_ERROR                     |500                 |An internal error occurred. If this persists please contact a Lenddo Representative.|

### The CommitPartnerJob API Call
Once there are no more tokens to associate to a given application, use the
`CommitPartnerJob` call to have Lenddo compute a score for your user. To
obtain the results of the job, see [Requesting Results from Lenddo] (#requesting-results-from-lenddo).

`CommitPartnerJob` takes the following arguments, all required:

- **partner script id** - Please reference the [developer section](https://partners.lenddo.com/developer_settings) 
    of the partner dashboard. This will define how you're notified of scoring results.
- **client id** - a transaction id that, coupled with the partner script id, identifies this job. For any given
    application, this is the same client_id used in the `PartnerToken` call.
    You can use this value to retrieve score results.
- **profile ids** - a list of `profile_ids` gathered from the results of the `PartnerToken` call.

#### Example
```python
# In the actual workflow, profile_ids would be the list of the ids obtained from PartnerToken
# responses associated to this application.
profile_ids = ['123FB']

# Assume the same client instance as used in the PartnerToken section.
# This client connects to networkservice.lenddo.com.
client.post('CommitPartnerJob', None, {
    'partner_script_id' : 'your-partner-script-id',
    'client_id' : 'example-user',
    'profile_ids' : profile_ids})
```

#### Errors
To inspect error details, catch urllib2.HTTPError, call the exception object's 'read()' method, and decode the
JSON response.  In the table below, 'Error Name' refers to the string found in the response body's 'name' field.

|Error Name                         |HTTP Status Code    |Description |
|----------                         |----------------    |----------- |
|BAD_REQUEST                        |400                 |Request was malformed, or missing required data. |
|INTERNAL_ERROR                     |500                 |An internal error occurred. If this persists please contact a Lenddo Representative. |
|PARTNER_CLIENT_ALREADY_PROCESSED   |400                 |The specified client_id has already been used. |


## Requesting Results from Lenddo

You may obtain score and verification results from Lenddo by making calls to the
`ClientVerification` and `ClientScore` APIs hosted at `scoreservice.lenddo.com`.

### Scores
To obtain score results, make a GET request to `ClientScore`:

```python
from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient
client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://scoreservice.lenddo.com')
response = client.get('ClientScore', 'example-user')
score = response['score']
flags = response['flags']
```

### Verification Results
To obtain verification results, make a GET request to `ClientVerification`:

```python
from lenddo_api_client import LenddoAPIClient
client = LenddoAPIClient('your-api-client-id', 'your-api-client-secret',
	'https://scoreservice.lenddo.com')
response = client.get('ClientVerification', 'example-user')
results = response['verifications']
flags = response['flags']
name_results = results['name']
```

### Errors
To inspect error details, catch urllib2.HTTPError, call the exception object's 'read()' method, and decode the
JSON response.  In the table below, 'Error Name' refers to the string found in the response body's 'name' field.

|Error Name        |HTTP Status Code    |Description |
|----------        |----------------    |----------- |
|BAD_REQUEST       |400                 |Request was malformed, or missing required data. |
|INTERNAL_ERROR    |500                 |An internal error occurred. If this persists please contact a Lenddo Representative. |
|NOT_FOUND         |404                 |The requested client_id was not found. |
